Q1) Write the Git command for each: initialize a repo, stage all files, commit with a message, push to remote, pull latest changes.

Ans:

1. Initialize a repository:
   git init

2. Stage all files:
   git add .

3. Commit with a message:
   git commit -m "Initial commit"

4. Push to remote:
   git push origin main

5. Pull latest changes:
   git pull origin main

Q2) What is the difference between git fetch and git pull? Answer in 2 lines.

Ans:

git fetch downloads the latest changes from the remote repository but does not merge them into the current branch.

git pull downloads the latest changes and automatically merges them into the current branch.

Q3) Create a new GitHub repository, push any small text file from your local system, and share the repo link.

Ans:

Steps:

1. Create a new repository on GitHub.
2. Create a small text file, for example, notes.txt, in the local project folder.
3. Run these commands:

   git init
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add text file"
   git branch -M main
   git remote add origin <your-github-repository-url>
   git push -u origin main

Repository Link: Paste your actual GitHub repository link here after creating and pushing the repository.

Q4) What is the difference between a Fork and a Pull Request? Answer in 2 lines.

Ans:

A Fork creates a personal copy of another person's GitHub repository in your own GitHub account.

A Pull Request is a request to merge your changes from a branch or fork into the original repository.

Q5) Create a new branch named feature-test, make one commit on it, and merge it back to the main branch. Write the commands you used.

Ans:

1. Create and switch to the new branch:
   git checkout -b feature-test

2. Add or modify a file and stage the changes:
   git add .

3. Commit the changes:
   git commit -m "Add feature test"

4. Switch back to the main branch:
   git checkout main

5. Merge the feature-test branch:
   git merge feature-test

6. Push the updated main branch:
   git push origin main
